♪
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
♪
What is that?
That's the smoke alarm.
What?
Come on, come on!
We gotta get out of here.
Come on.
Come on!
Let's go.
We gotta get out of here!
What's wrong?!
I don't know.
It won't open!
Come on!
Open the door! Help us!
Help us! Help us!
Come on!
Help us!
(Hawaii Five-O
theme song plays)
♪ Hawaii Five-O 5x16 ♪
Nanahu
((Embers)
Original Air Date on February 20, 2015
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
♪  ♪
♪
Excuse me, um...
I know that this sounds
like a lame pickup line,
but I know you
from somewhere, don't I?
Uh, actually, it is lame
and yeah, I think...
I think we used to date.
You and I?
Yeah.
It's crazy, I mean, I-I...
I juggle so many women
on a regular basis that I...
I can't keep track.
Oh, right.
Well, maybe this'll jog
your memory.
Hi.
I've really missed you.
I missed you, too.
And I'm sorry that I've, uh,
I've been distant, you know.
I apologize.
Oh, hey, I-I get it.
I want you to know,
I'm not going anywhere.
Uh-huh.
Well, I-I say that you are
going somewhere, um, with me.
I'll show you.
What do you think?
Wow.
Nice, right?
That's beautiful.
Where is it?
That is, uh,
out near Waimanalo.
Um, a friend of
a friend's place.
We got it
for the weekend, so...
This weekend?
This weekend.
Oh, Danny, I've got work.
No, no, no,
you don't got work.
I called your boss
early this morning,
and, um, I got you covered.
So, no work and that,
that is it for these phones.
No more phones,
no distractions.
Just you and me.
All right.
Um...
Should I pack a bag
or did you do that for me?
I didn't do that.
But I was thinking maybe
that clothes could be optional
for this weekend,
if that's okay with you.
Huh.
Huh?
Yeah, I think, uh,
I think that might work.
Yeah?
Yeah.
It's good to see you.
You, too.
Brother, you're playing what
we like to call military golf.
Left, right, left, right...
What am I doing wrong?
Well, for starters,
you're swinging like a gorilla.
Don't you remember what I said
in the parking lot?
This is a game of finesse.
The easier you swing,
the further that little
white ball goes.
Okay, that doesn't make
any sense to me.
See if this makes sense.
You see that
little white thing
way out there in
the middle of the fairway?
Yes, Lou.
That's my ball.
That's swinging easy.
Now, where's your ball?
I'll tell you where
your ball is--
all the way at the bottom
of that little pond.
Partner, partner, listen.
I'm just trying
to help you, okay?
Half the HPD
is gonna be out here
for that charity event
next week,
watching you tee off.
Is that how you want
to represent Five-O?
All right, all right.
All right, let's try it again.
Hey, guys.
Hey...
Hi. Hi. How are you?
Good. How are you?
Good.
Uh, Miss Wie, I know we're
playing a little slow. We-We'll pick it up.
No, no, that's not the reason
why I came over.
You guys are fine.
You guys know each other?
Please ignore
my ignorant friend.
He just crawled out
from under a rock
this morning,
with a driver in his hand.
What's the matter with you?
I'm, um, uh...
Lou! Lou Grover.
Hi. Nice to meet you.
I'm Michelle.
Yeah. This non-golfer here,
that's Steve McGarrett.
Hi. How are you?
I'm Steve.
How you doing? Nice to meet you.
- What's the matter with you?
- If you don't mind,
I just want to give you a tip.
I just saw something
from back there.
Oh, I would... yes, please.
By all means, yeah,
especially if it's free.
His motto is, "If it's for free,
then it's for me."
Please, go ahead.
I'd-I'd appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
Yeah, of course.
I just saw from back there...
Okay.
maybe just want to go
a little bit more behind,
widen your stance a little bit.
Like, further away
from the ball?
Yeah, a little bit. Yeah.
Perfect.
Just bend your knees.
How's that, yeah?
Yep, great. Looks great.
And then, now, just keep your head down,
Okay.
keep your eyes on the ball
and just swing through.
Okay, and swing through.
Mm-hmm.
What the hell...?
Wow, see?
You're a natural.
Thank you.
Of course.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
You're a, you're a great teacher.
Have you ever thought
about teaching golf?
Uh, you know what,
if my current job
doesn't work out,
then I'll think about it.
Yeah, you should think about it.
Yeah.
You're really good at it.
Thank you.
Have a good round, guys.
All right. Bye, Michelle. See you later.
Bye. Nice to meet you, too.
Nice to meet you.
What do you mean, a teacher?
Huh?
You know who that is?
That happens to be
Michelle Wie.
The LPGA 2014
U.S. Open champion.
Seriously?
Yeah. Seriously.
Well, no wonder you
were drooling, huh?
I wasn't drooling.
I was just
admiring how...
a professional
golfer like that
would take the time with
a charity case like yourself.
I'm sorry, are you done?
Because you see that
little white ball
out there on the fairway,
that's much closer to the hole
than your little white ball.
It looks like
it's getting lonely...
Do me a favor,
answer that
so I don't have to hear
any more of this.
McGarrett.
Thanks again.
See you around.
Hey, what do we got?
So, we have a confirmed arson.
Two fatalities.
Young couple,
Sabina and Hagan Mahoe.
They didn't stand a chance.
What do you mean?
Well, all the windows have
security bars on them,
but the front and back doors
were secured from the outside
with a wood plank
screwed to them.
Huh.
So it's premeditated, then.
Yeah, looks that way.
Why is there nobody
inside processing?
Yeah... about that.
Excuse me...
Excuse me!
I thought I made
myself very clear.
Nobody comes in
until I give the order.
Now, back the hell up,
don't touch anything,
and have a nice day.
I will have a nice day
as soon as you get your ass
out of my crime scene.
Ah, you must be McGarrett.
I heard you didn't
play well with others.
I am Special Agent
Kathy Millwood, ATF,
Orange County Office.
Okay, so you've come
a long way to trespass
at my crime scene.
Mm, that's where
you're wrong, Commander.
This isn't some random arson.
This is the work
of a serial torch.
It's the third,
all in Pearl City
within the last week.
The same UnSub
is responsible
for over two dozen
in Southern California
in the last five years.
What is that, a nanny cam?
No.
This camera was his eyes
and ears.
It wasn't hardwired.
There's no memory card.
It was a live feed.
Son of a bitch
was watching
his victims burn to death.
Here you go.
♪
Aloha, my friend.
Can I start you off with one of
our refreshing cold beverages?
No, no, I'm, uh, I'm okay.
I'm just waiting
on someone else.
Hm, you've been waiting a while.
I know because I saw you
sat down about...
30 minutes ago.
And you still haven't
bought nothing.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
Uh, I was supposed to meet
my girlfriend for lunch,
and I was late, and now she's
not picking up any of my calls.
Sound like you might be
in the doghouse, dude.
And I hate to pile on,
but these tables,
paying customers only, brah.
Yeah, fair enough.
Fair enough.
I'm sure you do
a very good lunch trade.
My girl, she raves
about the food.
Maybe you know her;
she's a regular here.
Here.
Yes, I see her come around.
Yeah?
But not today.
But if she does come by,
who shall I say
was waiting for her?
Um, John, but don't worry
about it; I'll find her.
Thank you, have a nice day.
Danny's Amber?
You sure about that?
He had a picture
with them together.
They looked pretty cozy, brah.
You think
she's stepping out on Danny?
Uh...
I don't know; I'll look into it.
Did you get a last name?
No, but I took a picture of the
perp's ride as he drove away.
The perp? Now he's the perp?
Hey, that's my
professional opinion, partner.
Mm-hmm.
Picture's on its way.
If you need any more assistance,
you know where to reach me.
Okay, this is where the
accelerant was poured.
It extended around
the entire room
and then across into the center,
where the fire started.
It's not gasoline.
No,
it's liquid petroleum.
It's used in camping stoves.
Fire bugs call it white gas.
The fumes are less volatile
than gasoline,
making it less likely
that our torch
would injure himself
when setting the fire.
This guy really knew his stuff.
You have no idea.
Your first fire
was five days ago.
Vacant house a few blocks away.
Second fire, two days ago.
Family was away on vacation.
Now, HPD arson guys
uploaded these cases
onto the national TAPS database;
I linked them to the fires
in California.
All right, so the pour pattern
and the use of white gas
is this guy's signature.
Yeah.
Camera part
of the signature, too?
No. That's something new.
And when he started
in California,
he went for vacant homes,
abandoned buildings.
But then, as time went on,
he evolved.
The last three arsons
in my county
were similar to this one--
a single-story home,
bars on the windows,
doors secured from the outside,
victims trapped on the inside.
So we're looking for someone
who recently moved to Oahu?
Not necessarily.
The torch we're looking for
was active in California
for about three years.
Then, two years ago,
the fires suddenly stopped.
Now he shows up here.
Any idea why he
took a break?
Maybe he got locked up
for something else.
I don't think so.
This guy is too good,
too careful.
Any number of triggers
could have made him stop
and start again.
But now that
he's taken lives
and gotten away with it,
he's not gonna stop again
until he decides to move on.
What else
can you tell us about him?
The torch we're looking for
is someone who's able to
function normally in society.
On the surface, there's
nothing remarkable about him.
He's disarming, personable,
may even be charming.
Hi.
I'm a licensed
exterminator.
I'm doing a job up the street.
It's been a really bad year
with all the rain,
especially for older homes
like yours.
Since I was in
the neighborhood,
I thought I'd
offer folks
a free,
no-obligation inspection.
He's persistent and persuasive.
Well, even if you don't
see them, they can be there.
Get ahead of it now, you save
yourself a ton of money in the future.
Like I said, it's free.
All right...
He targets victims
who are young and attractive,
whose lifestyle and happiness
he envies.
He then manages to ingratiate
himself somehow...
gets inside their homes,
studies the layout...
Awesome.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
You have yourself a great day.
This interaction with his
victims is the final step
to determining
if they will die.
Well, you were right.
My being right
didn't save these people.
I get a feeling
this is more
than just a
collar for you.
Looks like our guy escaped
through a trapdoor
in the laundry room,
that led to a crawlspace
under the house.
This guy knew this place
inside and out.
We need to canvass
the whole area,
see if anyone saw anything.
Yeah, HPD's on it, and we got
CSU searching for a camera.
He didn't use one this time.
What is that?
A fire retardant gel-- it's
sprayed on the outside of homes
that are in the pathway
of an oncoming brushfire.
He stood right here.
Help!
We need help! Help!
He wanted to be in the room...
when these people were dying.
Hey.
Good morning.
Somebody had a rough night
last night.
Come here.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
I was, uh...
Oh!
Ooh...
Sorry if I woke you up.
I was just, um...
couldn't sleep,
kept walking around.
I came out here, it was like
3:00 in the morning
and I fell asleep out here.
Mm...
Mmm...
Who's Reyes?
Hmm?
You-you mentioned his name
in your sleep last night.
I did?
Yeah.
Marco Reyes.
He's, uh...
he's the guy that
killed my brother.
Oh, Danny, I'm sorry.
I didn't...
It's okay.
It's all right.
What... what
happened to him?
Let's go swimming.
You want to go swimming?
Hmm?
You hate the water.
I don't know if
I hate the water.
But I was just thinking, if you
were wearing something skimpy,
maybe it would be a...
more pleasurable
experience, you know?
Mmm...
Huh?
I'm happy to oblige.
All right, let's go.
Let's go.
Okay.
Wait, come back.
Let's not go yet.
Okay.
Chin.
Hey, what's up?
So that plate
that Kamekona gave you
came back to a car
rented by a Frank Simpson,
out of New York City.
TSA has him landing here
a week ago.
Well, Amber's
from New York City.
Maybe, uh...
maybe this guy's
an old boyfriend or something.
He's more than an old boyfriend.
He's her husband.
Turns out our Amber Vitale
was actually born
Melissa Armstrong.
Her married name
is Melissa Simpson.
She travels 5,000 miles,
she changes her name,
and now the husband shows up?
She had to have been
running from him.
Yeah, and for good reason.
NYPD arrested Simpson
back in 2013
for felony assault.
Amber, AKA Melissa Simpson,
was the complainant victim.
He nearly killed her.
She's got an order
of protection against him.
Yeah, all right.
Well, you and I both know
that thing's not worth
the paper it's written on.
All right?
I bet Amber knew that, too.
Yeah. I tried calling Danny...
and Amber, as well.
Both phones went
straight to voice mail.
Danny told me that he was
going off the grid.
He wants to spend
some time with Amber.
They must have turned
their phones off.
Well, that explains why
I can't ping their location.
He say where he was taking her?
No. No, he didn't.
I'll reach out to friends
and work and see if
anyone knows anything.
Have HPD help.
Put an APB out on Simpson.
If he's going after Amber...
she and Danny
could be in danger.
What is it?
Ball cap.
Everyone's looking
at the house.
He's looking at us.
That's him.
Steve!
Damn it.
He was just here.
You!
Green jacket.
Show me your hands!
Right now!
Put 'em on your head!
Turn around, slowly.
That's not him.
Are you Agent Kathy Millwood?
How do you know my name?
Don't do that!
Do not do that!
Get your hands back
on top of your head!
What's the matter
with you?
Get on your knees.
Your hands.
Give me your hands!
What did he tell you?
Nothing.
He gave me $100
to put on this hat and coat
and he told me to make sure
you got that envelope.
That's it.
What are those?
I said, what are those?
The torch knows you?
Huh?
What are you
not telling us?
What are you not
telling us?
The man we're chasing...
he burned down my house
and he killed my husband.
What?
So how are you still on this case?
I'm not.
The arsonist's desire
to destroy and kill
is born out of
a chronic sexual dysfunction
fueled by feelings of anger,
inadequacy and shame.
His IQ is well below
the normal range.
Fire makes him feel powerful
and in control...
but these feelings
only temporarily mask
the pain of knowing
who he really is:
a weak, frightened coward.
You wanted to antagonize him
so he'd contact you, right?
Yes.
Mm.
And he did.
Two nights later,
he broke into my house
and set the fire
that took my husband's life.
Mitch and I had
gotten into a horrible fight
that night and, um...
...he accused me of being
obsessed with the case
at the expense of our marriage.
He wasn't wrong.
He ended up sleeping
on the couch in our guest room.
Mitchell? Mitch!
About 4:00 a.m.,
the alarm went off, and...
Mitch!
...by the time I got to him,
it was too late.
Mitch?
Come on, baby.
Coroner said he had already
passed from smoke inhalation.
So how did you get out?
Firemen dragged me out.
I didn't want
to leave Mitch in there.
You know, Kathy, I'm...
I am sorry,
I really am.
But you lied to us.
This isn't a job
for you anymore,
you got to see that.
The only reason
you're here
is to take this guy out
and avenge your
husband's death.
No.
I want to stop him.
For what he did to my husband
and for killing
all those other people.
And if the ATF thinks
that's a conflict of interest,
well, then that's too damn bad
because I'm the only one
who's gotten this close.
Yes, I blame myself
for what happened
to my husband...
but, damn it...
...tracking this guy down
is the only thing
that gives me purpose.
Please...
Please don't
take that away from me.
All right.
My boys spoke to one
of Amber's coworkers.
He said that their boss might
know where Amber and Danny are.
He also said that
an old friend of hers
came by the office this morning,
asking the same question.
We're trying to track down
the boss.
As soon as that
information comes in,
I'll get it to you.
All right, well,
let's make it fast, Duke.
Obviously we're not
the only one looking for 'em.
Babe...
whatever you're cooking
smells really good.
Hey.
Hey, so I just
got off the phone with the lab.
Turns out the gel that you guys
recovered from the last scene
only comes in a
powdered form.
It has to be mixed with water
to create the gel.
Well, Fong found
a chemical, cypermethrin,
mixed in with the
recovered sample.
It's a pesticide used
to kill termites.
So wait a minute, the gel
was mixed in a container
that once held the pesticide?
Yeah.
And cypermethrin
is legal for use
only by licensed exterminators.
Wait, so our torch
is an exterminator.
I'm sorry.
Anybody else see
the irony in that?
That's how
he got into their homes,
got to know who
the victims were.
Yeah, so we
cross-referenced names
on purchase orders
with the names
of all the exterminators
on the Island.
And we got a hit.
That's him.
Jason Duclair,
Five-O!
Clear.
Well, I guess we found
the arson wing
of the museum.
Guy's proud of his work.
These red pins
must be the homes
he's already torched.
And the yellow ones
must be
the potential targets.
Okay, I'll get HPD Dispatch
to these addresses.
Hold on.
I got an e-mail here,
it's a reservation
for a hotel room tonight
at the Lava Gardens,
room number 2104.
Well, that... that's just
three miles down the road.
Why would he need
a room there?
Because he's gonna go for
something big this time.
That hotel's his next target.
Hey, how you doing?
Hey.
Enjoy your stay.
Thanks.
Frank, please!
Do you love him?
Answer me!
Do you love him?!
Frank, please...
All I wanted to do was
take care of you.
To love you!
Love me?
You put me in the
hospital twice, Frank.
Oh, I know...
I know I did, baby.
I made a mistake.
I told you I was
sorry about that.
Put the knife down.
Put the knife down,
Frank, please.
I want to.
But I can't.
I need you to tell me
that you still love me.
I can't.
I can't... anymore.
I can't...
Why not?
Why not? Because of him?
You're gonna tell me
that you love him?
Because I didn't
fly 5,000 miles
for you to tell me
that it's over!
Danny!
Danny, stop!
I'm gonna get you
to the hospital.
I got you.
Okay.
Keep pressure on it.
All right.
I'm gonna get
you to the hospital, okay?
Where do you think you're going?
You can't run from me!
All right, Kathy...
you stay down here, all right?
Coordinate the evac
with HPD and Fire.
Okay. Be careful.
Yeah. Let's move.
Clear.
Where the hell is he?
Well, the front desk said
he definitely
checked in to this room.
Well, something's off.
Jason!
Hi. This is Kathy.
Leave a message.
Kathy's not answering.
There's got to be
another room.
I know there's a part
of you that's afraid.
Part of you that just
wants this all to end.
Yeah, that's why you stopped
and went away after you tried
to kill me the first time.
Isn't that right, Jason?
Hi. This is Kathy.
Nothing.
She's still not
answering her phone.
HPD and Fire haven't seen her.
Guys, look at this.
It's blood and it's fresh.
Well, that other room theory's
looking pretty good.
All right, we need
to check every floor.
Next.
Up, up, up, up.
There's our matching
blood trail.
The police know who you are.
They're here.
You're never gonna get away.
Don't you see,
Agent Millwood?
I never planned to leave.
I'm right where I want to be.
I've been waiting for you.
You don't have to do this.
No, I do.
We have to finish
what we started.
You already killed my husband.
There's nothing that can be
more painful than that.
Jason, do you hear me?
Jason?
You have no idea how close
you were to catching me,
Agent Millwood.
We could've been
famous together.
But then you went on TV and
told those lies about me.
I told the truth.
You called me
an uneducated deviant.
And look now.
Here you are, at my mercy.
Who's the smart one now?
Oh, God!
Oh, God...
Before we die,
I want you to know
I have no remorse
for what I'm doing.
Burning people and things
is the only real pleasure
I found on this earth.
I can only pray that death
is no worse than this life.
Oh, my God!
I got him!
Grover, now!
Gotcha. Gotcha.
Thank you.
All right, I got him.
You clear?
On your back, on your back.
On your knees.
Wait, look at me.
Look at me, you son of a bitch!
I promise you
you'll get exactly
what you want someday.
You will burn in Hell.
Let's go.
McGarrett.
What?
When?
How bad is it?
I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry.
I should've told him.
He's in Recovery.
It may take a little time,
but he's gonna be okay.
He's gonna be all right?
He's gonna be all right.
Thank you.
You're welcome...
Thank you so much.
You're welcome.
Take good care of him.
All right.
I didn't have much
of a family as a kid.
And when I was 19,
I met Frank.
And he was older
and charming and...
he was the first man
who ever made me feel special.
A year later,
we were married,
and everything changed.
He wanted to control
every aspect of my life.
And when I stood up for myself,
he got violent.
One night, he, uh,
he almost killed me,
so I-I...
left the city and ran as fast
and far away as I could.
And then I met you.
I got lucky, huh?
Right, babe?
I wouldn't call it lucky.
No?
No.
I-I mean,
I was, I was afraid
you would think
I was damaged goods.
That you wouldn't want me
with all that baggage.
Baggage?
Look, I got, um,
I got plenty of baggage
my-my-myself, you know?
I think between the two of us,
we may be able, be able
to open up a luggage
joint one day, you know?
Yeah.
Look, um...
I say that-that...
that part of your life
is over with now.
You know, it's finished.
I mean, we... we can
start over right now.
What do you say?
Hmm?
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah?
Be good?
I'm... Melissa Armstrong.
Melissa Armstrong?
Oh...
Melissa Armstrong, I'm, uh,
Danny Williams;
nice to meet you.
It's nice to meet you.
I'm so happy that
your partner's gonna be okay.
Thank you.
No, thank you.
So what do you plan
to do with yourself
now that Duclair's
crossed off the list?
Walk away, retire,
start over.
Try to let go of
all that guilt.
You know, I spent
the last two years
of my life just existing.
I think it's time to
start living again.
You know...
...don't look back,
okay?
Just don't look back,
whatever you do.
You can't change the past.
Trust me on that.
All right?
You saved my life.
You get a hug, okay?
Thank you.
Take care of yourself.
I will.
You do the same, okay?
Bye.
Hey, boss, can I bum a smoke?
Move.
Just kidding.
Three.
♪
All right, all right...
Grab that putter for me,
little girl.
Thank you.
Mm-hmm.
So, Dad,
how was my driving?
Little mama, your driving
has been outstanding.
Although not quite as
good as my driving.
Off the tee, that is.
Hey, don't hurt your shoulder
patting yourself
on the back, okay?
Is he always like that?
Only when my mom
is not around.
Let's leave your
mother out of this.
Okay, well, Daddy,
I don't understand.
How can you have 20 less strokes
than Uncle Steve
and still be tied?
Because despite
Uncle Steve having
an LPGA Major-winning
golf professional
as a caddy,
he still has
a very large handicap...
in more ways than one.
It's easy putting.
Hey, buddy!
Yo, if you ever
play golf again,
which you shouldn't,
the idea is to get the ball
close to this little,
uh, pin thing.
That's my partner.
Yeah, that's very
funny; well done.
What are you doing here?
You're supposed to be
at home resting.
Yeah, the-the doctor thought
it would be a good idea
for me to come out, get some
fresh air, and watch you
humiliate yourself
on the golfing course here.
If these are your friends,
I would hate
to meet your enemies.
Yeah, tell me about it.
Okay, I know it doesn't
look like it,
but it's a very,
very makeable putt.
You got this.
I got this?
Excuse me.
What?
Listen, I didn't want
to shout this out
and embarrass you
in front of all
these folks, but, uh,
would you mind
if I just make this little
short putt to win it
before you miss yours?
Knock yourself out.
All right.
Here we go.
Excuse me again.
I thought you said
it broke away
from the water?
What do you want?
Oh, hey, buddy.
Listen, uh, from way back here
it was hard for us to tell,
but did that go in?
All right.
This is it.
Last hole, last putt.
You make this, you win.
No pressure, right?
No, no pressure.
You got this.
Any time you're ready, Tiger.
I got this.
Okay, just visualize the ball
falling into the cup.
Yes, just
visualize the trophy
falling into my hands.
Don't listen to him,
just-just focus.
You got this.
Just focus.
Falling into the cup.
Uh-huh.
No...
Uh-huh!
Oh, hell, no!
Oh!
== sync, corrected by elderman ==
@elder_man
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org